Diverting droughts with data, designing a visualization tool to drive water
conservation efforts across
Massachusetts.
Welcome to our demo video. So for our first tab of our website, we have the
motivation followed by the data as well
as the demo video which we will link
after this, in addition to our final
report. So let's start with our first
visualization which is the
Massachusetts region map. So
specifically this region map will help
us with
the 1st and 2nd domain task that we will mention next. So
first you can
see how you have a legend, with a
categorical color map, so representing the
six distinct regions. So the purpose of
this is to better allow users to
understand which region they are coming
from. So in essence, we can click on the
different counties that we have marked
here with markers and say you're from
Worcester County, then you know you're
part of the Central Region and you can
keep that in mind as you filter for the
next few visualizations. So next we have
the line chart and scatter plot. So
let's look at the scatter plot first. This
helps to address the first task, which
is determining relationship between
rainfall values and drought levels among
regions. So let's say we're interested
in all three years as well as January,
February, November, December, in addition
to the first four regions. So once we
select those, we can click the button to
display the scatter plot. And in general
you can, as a user, see there is a general
positive correlation between drought
severity and precipitation levels. So
that helps to answer the first domain task.
The second domain task is determining
which regions tend to have more or less
precipitation than other regions during
one or multiple months across one or
multiple years. So given this line chart,
say we're interested in 2018 data,
so this only shows data from one year
across all 12 months. So it's pretty
clear that Cape Cod and Islands seems to
have the greatest precipitation, while
Connecticut River has the lowest
precipitation within the month of March
and you can see that across, for instance
July where the lowest is actually
Cape Code while the highest is Connecticut
River. So using this tool tip, it better
allows you to understand comparisons
within one month of one year and then
say we want to compare across
multiple years for a given month. So you
can use a scatter plot and you can see
how in general for Cape Cod and Islands
they seem to have the greatest
precipitation regardless of the year, so
across all years. And you can test that
out with all these other months. And
then lastly we have the linked bar and
scatter plot which helps to answer
determining of a region whether they
have a higher or lower SPI, whether
that corresponds with a region having
higher or lower annual precipitation
totals. So say we are interested in 2018
and we press submit and then from there say we click on this bar and
see that for Cape Cod and Islands the precipitation seems to
be pretty low compared to the other
regions, right? And you can see how
there is five points to the left of the
X = 0 drought severity level and then
say then we look at Central which has
the highest annual precipitation and it
only has like around 2 1/2 points to the right of the drought severity. So to some extent it does
show that annual precipitation does correspond with SPI levels in the sense that greater annual precipitation leads to
less drought severity as negative means
stronger drought severity. However, that
is to some extent, as for instance you
can look at Northeast which has the
lowest annual precipitation but only has
around three points to the left,
compared to Cape Cod and Islands which has
actually five points to the left. And
then lastly, we just have our
acknowledgement page. Thank you for
listening.